# Credit-Card-Fraud-Detection
## Credit Card Fraud Detection using Face Recognition
The use of credit cards for fraud has significantly expanded as a result of modern technologies and communications continuing, unrelenting expansion. Credit card fraud is a problem because it costs consumers and financial institutions many billions of dollars every year and because fraudsters are constantly looking for and creating new ways to engage in illicit activity. One of the biggest problems facing credit card firms is fraud. The term "credit card fraud" describes the actual loss of a credit card or the loss of private credit card data. We require effective technologies like artificial intelligence and machine learning approaches since these frauds are occurring on a large scale.
As detecting and preventing frauds is costly, labor-intensive tasks and time-consuming. The most commonly techniques used in detecting fraud are Naïve Bayes (NB), Support Vector Machines (SVM), K-Nearest Neighbor algorithms (KNN). Various weaknesses include unpublished literature and an imbalance classification. Imbalance classification is caused due to lower data entries of observations of minority class compared with the majority in the data set. In this project, we suggest to add a new module of face recognition and detection as a confirmatory test in case of doubtful transactions. Detection of fraud is a set of methodologies that have been taken in order to prevent money or property to be obtained through false instances.
Many businesses, including banking and insurance, use fraud detection. Frauds in the banking industry can be committed by using stolen or misplaced credit cards or by forging cheques. Other card scams could include significant losses or an accident during the pay-out. Fraud can take many various forms, including statements, securities, insurance, and credit card fraud. While working on various classifier algorithms, we would concentrate on credit card thefts. We would be considering sampling the data with different algorithms and comparing the outcomes of the classifiers after sampling.
Resultant, we hope to retrieve a classification algorithm working best with a particular sampling methodology dependent on the dataset and parameters provided. Lastly, we aim at adding a face recognition model to act as confirmatory test in case of fraud detection by the classifier.


